Type safe links experiment (#1235)
wasp-lang/wasp: web/docs/advanced/links.md

Reviewer: Great docs here as well!

---
title: Type-Safe Links
---

import { Required } from '@site/src/components/Required'

If you are using Typescript, you can use Wasp's custom `Link` component to create type-safe links to other pages on your site.

## Using the `Link` Component

After you defined a route:

```wasp
route TaskRoute { path: "/task/:id", to: TaskPage }
page TaskPage { ... }
```

You can get the benefits of type-safe links by using the `Link` component from `@wasp/router`:

```jsx
import { Link } from '@wasp/router'

export const TaskList = () => {
  // ...

  return (
    <div>
      {tasks.map((task) => (
        <Link
          key={task.id}
          to="/task/:id"
      {/* 👆 You must provide a valid path here */} 
          params={{ id: task.id }}>

>       {/* 👆 All the params must be correctly passed in */}   

Reviewer: I'd skip the pointer emojis, but to each their own :)

Author: If we plan on restricting emojis in docs in the new style-guide for docs, I'll remove it, np 👍

Author: I'll leave it for since we have them elsewhere, but I'll remove them if we start removing emojis from all parts of the docs.

          {task.description}
        </Link>
      ))}
    </div>
  )
}
```

### Using Search Query & Hash

You can also pass `search` and `hash` props to the `Link` component:

```tsx
<Link
  to="/task/:id"
  params={{ id: task.id }}
  search={{ sortBy: 'date' }}
  hash="comments"
>
  {task.description}
</Link>
```

This will result in a link like this: `/task/1?sortBy=date#comments`. Check out the [API Reference](#link-component) for more details.

## The `routes` Object

You can also get all the pages in your app with the `routes` object:

```jsx
import { routes } from '@wasp/router'

const linkToTask = routes.TaskRoute({ params: { id: 1 } })
```

This will result in a link like this: `/task/1`.

You can also pass `search` and `hash` props to the `routes.TaskRoute` function. Check out the [API Reference](#routes-object) for more details.

## API Reference

### `Link` Component

The `Link` component accepts the following props:
- `to` <Required />

  - A valid Wasp Route path from your `main.wasp` file.

- `params: { [name: string]: string | number }` <Required /> (if the path contains params)

  - An object with keys and values for each param in the path.

>   - For example, if the path is `/task/:id`, then the `params` prop must be `{ id: 1 }`. Wasp supports required and optional params..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - For example, if the path is `/task/:id`, then the `params` prop must be `{ id: 1 }`. Wasp supports required and optional params.
```

- `search: string[][] | Record<string, string> | string | URLSearchParams`

  - Any valid input for `URLSearchParams` constructor.

>   - For example, you can pass an object like this: `{ sortBy: 'date' }` and it will be converted to `?sortBy=date`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - For example, the object `{ sortBy: 'date' }` becomes `?sortBy=date`.
```
